Storing Data in Python Using the JSON Module (#2661)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/storing-data-in-python-using-json-module/index.md

### Prerequisites
Have some basic knowledge of Python programming language.

### Why store data in Python using JSON module?

 1. Enables developers to dump simple Python data structures to a file and afterward load that data the next time the application runs.
 2. Data can be shared between Python programs using Json.
 3. When you store data using the JSON format, you can share it even with people working with other programming languages
 4. It's simple to learn and comes in a portable format.

### Using json.dump() 
To use `json.dump()` function import the `json` module first.

The `json.dump()` function take two arguments:
 1. Piece of information to save
 2. File object it can use to save the information

Let's develop a quick program to save a set of numbers. To save the set of numbers, we will use the `json.dump()` function.

```python
import json

numbers = [10, 20, 30, 70, 191, 23]  #create a set of numbers
filename = 'numbers.json'          #use the file extension .json
with open(filename, 'w') as file_object:  #open the file in write mode
 json.dump(numbers, file_object)   # json.dump() function to stores the set of numbers in numbers.json file
```

> In this program, we store the set of numbers in the file *numbers.json*. The extension `.json` shows that the data inside the file is in *JSON* form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this program, we store the set of numbers in the file `numbers.json`. The extension `.json` shows that the file contains data in JSON format.
```

> We then access the file in `'w'`mode(*write mode*), to make JSON capable of writing data to a file. Finally,the `json.dump()` function keeps the set of numbers in the file *numbers.json*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then access the file in `'w'`mode(*write mode*), to make JSON capable of writing data to a file. Finally,the `json.dump()` function helps store the set of numbers in the file *numbers.json* file.
```

> This program has no terminal output, but when we open the file *numbers.json* we see the following data:

Reviewer: *numbers.json* -> `numbers.json`

Reviewer: Do this throughout the article

```
[10, 20, 30, 70, 191, 23]
```

### Using json.load()
Let's construct a program that reads the set of numbers back into memory using `json.load()`, considering the previous example:

```python
import json

filename = 'numbers.json'  #make sure is the same file you wrote to  
with open(filename,'r') as file_object:  #open in read mode
 numbers = json.load(file_object)#use json.load to load data and store it in the variable numbers

print(numbers)     #print the set of numbers
```

The `json.load(`) function takes one argument which is the file object. 

> Ensure that you read from the same file that you wrote to. Python only requires to read out of that file hence open it in *read mode*.

Reviewer: `Ensure that you read from the same file that you wrote to.`

Need not be.

We can load JSON data from any other JSON file too. You should have mentioned to follow the steps in order for getting right results. Only when JSON file is created, it can be loaded.

> In the above program, the `json.load()` function to loads the
> information stored in *numbers.json*, and then store it in the variable *numbers*. Then we print the set of numbers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above program, the `json.load()` function to loads the information stored in *numbers.json*, and then store it in the variable *numbers*. Then we print the set of numbers:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

[10, 20, 30, 70, 191, 23]
```

This is a simple technique for two programs to share data.

### Saving and reading user-generated data

> When dealing with data provided by users, storing data with JSON is helpful since if you don't save your user's data in some way, you'll lose everything when your program terminates.

Reviewer: Point is repeated again. Remove this

Consider the following case: we ask the user for their first name when they execute our program for the first time, and then
remember their first name when they re-run our program.

First, let's save their first name:

```python
import json

firstname = input("Enter your first name to register? ")
filename = 'firstname.json'
with open(filename, 'w') as file_obj:
     json.dump(firstname, file_obj)
     print("Thank you for registering in our community " + firstname + "!")
```

In this program, we ask for the first name to register the user.

We use `json.dump()` to store the first name in the file *firstname.json*. 

The user will then see a notification stating that he or she has been registered.

```
Enter your first name to register? Felix
Thank you for registering in our community Felix!

> ```

Reviewer: This snippet does the same functionality like the previous one.

It's just another example.

You could probably write on some other subtopic, since the core concept is being covered again

Let's now create a new program that welcomes a user whose first name has been registered.

```python
import json

filename = 'firstname.json'
with open(filename,'r') as file_obj:
 firstname = json.load(file_obj)
 print("Welcome back, " + firstname + " Thank you for registering!")
 ```

Here we use the `json.load()` to read the data saved in *firstname.json* into the variable *firstname*. We can finally welcome them back now that we've recovered their first name:

```
Welcome , Felix  Thank you for registering!

> ```

Reviewer: You are doing the same thing here.

Though, you are accepting user info from the user doesn't make this a new program. You can even do the same in your very first snippet too.
